
	Mobile App Marketing And Monetization by Alex Genadinik Copyright © 2014 Alex Genadinik All rights reserved. ISBN: ISBN-13: 978-1502383822 DEDICATION

	Before we start, a warm welcome to you Hello, I am excited that you got this book, and I want to extend a very warm welcome to you. In writing this book I did my best to cover every element that I think will help you find success with your mobile app business.

	I hope you enjoy the book, and I hope to hear from you when you finish it. Whether you like the book or not, I’d love to hear your thoughts on how the book currently is, and how you think it can be improved. My email address is alex.genadinik@gmail.com and I look forward to hearing from you after you complete the book.

	GIFTS FOR YOU As I mentioned, I am excited that you got the book and I want to make sure that you get a lot of value from it.

	At the end of the book there are 3 additional resources that I made free for you. There are also a number of very discounted resources listed there that might help you. The reason they are discounted and not free is that it just isn’t possible for me to give everything away for free. But I did provide very big discounts to make it almost free. Browse all the resources there, and definitely take advantage of the free gifts from me.

	While writing this book I debated whether to add the paid/discounted products. I realize that it might be off putting for you to be sold additional products. What I decided in the end is to only add paid products if they are REALLY helpful to you, and for a VERY discounted price whenever possible, while at the same time making sure that I give you lots of additional free resources. Chapter 1: Examining A Mobile App As A Business First, let me tell you a little bit about me, and why I am
qualified to write on this topic. I created my first app in early 2012. Since then I created 8 Android apps for business, 6 iOS apps, and 4 Amazon Kindle apps. The apps have passed 1,000,000 downloads (many of them paid), and now earn me a full-time living. The apps are business apps that help entrepreneurs plan, start and grow their businesses. They are very loved apps. In fact, if you search for the word “business” on Android, my app is #1 and has been at #1 for over 2 years as of this
latest revision of December 2015.

	In this book I share with you all the tips and strategies I used to get my apps to rank so highly, and reach 1,000,000 downloads so you can do it too. In fact, my goal is that YO U would get much more than 1,000,000 downloads.

	In this book you will learn how to plan your app before you even begin creating it, how to promote a mobile app like a pro, and how to make money from your app. Although the sky is the limit, the app business isn’t an easy business. Competition is fierce, learning curves are steep, monetization strategies don’t always work as well we you would like them to work, learning to program and design apps isn’t simple, and development time is expensive.

	For these reasons I want to urge you to be prepared to work very hard over a long-term. Daydreaming about success is fun, but you will have to put a lot of sweat and hard work into your app business to make it a true success. Get ready!

	Creating The App There are two ways to create a mobile app. You can program the app by yourself like I did, or you can hire a developer or an agency to build your app. Both of these methods have their pros and cons. If you are a developer, creating your app is much cheaper and faster. Of course, it is difficult to continue to have to update your own skills in creating Android and iPhone apps, keeping up with latest operating system updates, and changes in programming language updates.
Creating and maintaining your apps is a difficult and stressful experience. Of course, the benefit of making the apps on your own if you can overcome the stress and difficulty is that it will be cheaper and faster long-term even if in the beginning it will be very slow going.

	If you are not a developer, before you go out and risk thousands or tens of thousands of dollars by trying to hire someone or some agency to create your app, I want to encourage you to be open minded about learning how to develop apps. If you learn to create apps on your own, you will learn a very marketable skill, and you will save tens of thousands of dollars because you won’t have to hire a developer. Additionally, if you have other app ideas in the future, you will be able to simply
create them on your own, without needing outside help. If programming a mobile app is not for you, you can hire a developer on a site like oDesk.com or elance.com, or you can hire a mobile app development agency. As a rule of thumb, the more you pay, the higher level of quality you will get. It isn’t unusual for an app to cost tens of thousands of dollars when it is all said and done.

	A gigantic pitfall when hiring a developer or a mobile app development agency is that most entrepreneurs just want the first version of their app developed, and spend most of their initial funds on launching version one of their apps.

	But the truth is that while the launch of an app seems like a huge deal, the first version of the app is just the beginning. The key to success is to continue improving the app by constantly creating new updates, and making the app better and better over time. And those updates cost money. Over time, this can cost well over $100,000 on top of the initial cost to develop the first version of the app. That is very risky, especially when combined with the fact that contrary to what
entrepreneurs hope, over 99% of mobile apps do not go on to raise money from professional investors, and do not make the money back for the entrepreneur.


	Brief Mobile App Marketing Intro How you promote your app should depend on the kind of app you have, and the level of competition in your app’s niche. For most apps, the biggest driver of downloads is app store search, also known as ASO (App Store Optimization). The second biggest driver of downloads is social sharing. After that, the next large potential sources of downloads are publicity and being featured in the app store. We will cover all these strategies in more detail shortly in a
chapter that will focus on marketing for your mobile apps.

	Brief Mobile App Monetization Intro Mobile app monetization is probably the single most challenging part of your mobile app business. For my apps, finding the right ways in which my apps would make money was by far the most time consuming, difficult and mind boggling part of the process. The challenge wasn’t figuring out which monetization strategies I was able to try. The monetization strategies for apps are relatively common knowledge. The real challenge was making those strategies
effective at bringing in enough income overall and on a per-user basis.

	The most obvious way to monetize your app is by publishing ads on the apps. The second most common way to make money from your apps is to enable in-app purchases (subscriptions, consumable purchases and non- consumable purchases). Other ways to make money from your apps is to sell your own products, or to sell other products as an affiliate.

	We will cover this in much more detail shortly.

	Setting Reasonable Goals For Your App You should also set realistic goals for your app. I realize all entrepreneurs want to sell their business for a billion dollars (or more), but that just isn’t the reality for most apps. Many apps have very limited potential either due to poor discoverability and natural marketing options, low demand, or being in a niche that is way too competitive. Think through the potential of your app. This will give you a sense of how much time and money it may be
reasonable to invest into your app. Doing this will help you identify the right opportunity for you.


	On Which Platform Should You Release Your App First? The mobile app world first truly blossomed on the iOS platform. Despite Android quickly gaining ground on iOS, for a number of years there was no question on which platform developers should release their apps on first. It was iOS because it had the most early adopters, overall users, better monetization rates (although this isn't an immediate concern when first launching the app), the devices were better, and there was an aura of
coolness associated with iOS.

	In recent years, Android fully caught up to iOS, surpassed it in total devices on which the operating system is installed, and many early adopters switched to Android. The decision of where to first release your app has become a much less clear one. Let's go over the pros and cons of each so when it comes time for you to make that decision, you will be better equipped for it.

	In the case of my apps, I first launched them on Android simply because I owned an Android device at that time, and it was easier for me to test the apps as I developed them. I made my original decision based on that coincidence, but I learned many of Android's advantages along the way. This kind of decision making may seem too simplistic, and it was. But it was very practical, less risky, and more affordable for me as someone who was just entering the app world. It made my barrier to
entry much smaller, and allowed me to get up and running.

	It goes to show that there are very basic criteria on which it is OK to base your decision. Now let's get into more complex decision criteria. The biggest development advantage that Android has over iOS is that Android has absolutely no review process. You can update your app multiple times a day if you want to. Since there is no review process, your app can be as bad as you want it to be when you first release it to the GooglePlay app store. Of course, no one wants their app to be bad,
but this nuance allowed me to release an extremely “beta” version of the app very early in my development. I wasn't too worried if I got bad reviews because I could always have just taken the app off the app store, improved it, and released it again as a new app. The early bad reviews wouldn't hurt the app, so I didn't have to worry about that.

	The advantage of releasing early and being able to update the app whenever I wanted to proved to be tremendous. On a typical day, I would wake up, check my analytics to learn how people used the app the night before, figure out the next strategy based on that data of how users were using the app during the previous day, update the app according to my deductions from that data, and release a new version of the app that evening or afternoon. Next morning I would again check my analytics to
observe how users used this new version of the app, and make a new set of deductions from monitoring how users used the app, and make appropriate improvements again. Sometimes I was able to do this cycle as often as a few times per day if the app changes were simple.

	As you can imagine, being able to have such frequent app update cycles allowed me to improve the app very rapidly, and quickly get my app to a point where users really liked the app. This flexibility of the Android platform allowed me to take my very low quality early “beta” version of the app and make it a very liked app in a matter of a month or two. This is something that is much more difficult to do on iOS. Whereas my development cycle on Android was sometimes as short as half a day
or a day, on iOS it was averaging about a week or slightly less than that because of the lengthy app review process that is a part of releasing app updates in the Apple App Store. On Android I was able to improve the app and experiment many times faster than on iOS, and that made all the difference. Once I would get my Android app to a good place where users liked it, I would take all the features enjoyed by my Android users that took me many experiments to hone in on, and would add it to the
iOS app in one monthly or bi-weekly update.

	If your goal is to rapidly improve your app using the “Lean Start-up methodology” where you release an early version of the app, observe results, make improvements based on the observations, and release the app back to be used by users, and continue this cycle on an ongoing basis, Android is a great way to go.

	On the other hand, if you want to have a big launch with pizazz and publicity, iOS is probably still the cooler platform that is more hip. Many developers I know still release apps for iOS first, and think about Android next. Additionally, if you have an app that uses hardware like the camera, it can be much simpler to develop apps for iOS because there are literally thousands of different kinds of Android devices which different cameras on all of them. Those devices have very different
hardware, and it can sometimes be a nightmare to develop apps for hardware that can be so varied. In such cases, iOS offers a more reasonable platform.

	Basic Business Planning Questions To Ask Yourself Before Beginning Work On An App

	While you don’t necessarily need a formal business plan, it is a great idea to do some basic business planning for your app before you begin work on your app. The purpose of this early business planning is to catch potential mistakes during an early stage of your app business.

	The earlier you catch a mistake the cheaper it is to fix that mistake, and adjust the rest of your business strategy to avoid it. When you are considering an app idea, try to think about how that particular app can be promoted, developed, how you can make money from it, and where to take the app long-term. The more rigor you apply to answering these questions, the stronger your app strategy will be.

	If you are new to the app world, and planning your first app, it might be difficult to answer these questions correctly due to lack of experience in the industry. For that reason, as I mentioned earlier, you are welcome to get free feedback from me about your app. At the end of this book you will find all the extra ways in which I go out of my way to help you. Providing feedback on your app ideas is one of those ways, so you are welcome to take me up on my offer. Chapter 2: Strategies To
Promote A Mobile App Do you have a mobile app, or are you thinking of creating one? If so, you will need to generate hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of downloads. In this chapter I present 20 mobile app marketing strategies to reach tremendous scale, and generate many downloads for your app.

	The strategies I present are strategies that I have tried myself, which have been effective for me to promote my apps which at the moment of writing this book have a cumulative download total of over 1,000,000 and have become some of the top apps for entrepreneurs to plan, start and grow their businesses. I am just a single developer, probably just like you are.

	I am not a multi-million dollar app development studio. So if I was able to get the strategies presented here to work for me, so can you.

	App Store Search And ASO The app stores are the number one driver of app downloads for the vast majority of apps. What does that mean for you? It means that even before you write the first line of code for your app, you must have a viable ASO (app search optimization) strategy.

	There are three things you need to do to optimize your app store listing to get the largest number of downloads possible. The first thing to do is to choose the right keywords for which you will try to get your app to rank when people search things in the app stores. If you are not experienced with keyword research, you can try to get an SEO or ASO professional to help you understand what keywords to try to rank for in the app stores, the amount of competition per keyword, and the volume
of demand for those keywords. The SEO for app stores is called ASO (app store optimization).

	Once you understand what keywords you want to try to rank for, create a professional app icon, beautiful screenshots, and write an amazing description and title which are at the same time rich with the keywords you are targeting, and also very appealing to people who will be reading that description when they will be deciding whether to download your app. You want to get people curious and excited about downloading your app.

	Lastly, once people get your app, make sure the app is engaging, and people actually like it and use it. Work to increase the amount of time people spend using the app, and the number of times people open the app. Those engagement signals are ranking factors that will help your app rank higher in the app store rankings.

	If you do the above items well, you should be getting hundreds of downloads per day from the app store. If you are not, reconsider the keywords you chose to target, think about how much search demand there is for those keywords, and how competitive they are. Try to understand why you are not getting the downloads. Is the problem a lack of demand for the keywords you chose, or a competitive environment that is too difficult?

	Lastly, make sure your app gets good reviews. Reviews are a big part of your app store listing. So first and foremost, your app must satisfy and delight your users. Otherwise, everything else will be much more difficult. WHY SEARCH TRAFFIC IS SO IMPORTANT Most people understand that they need to have their app rank in app store search, but don't necessarily understand all the reasons why it is so important. Let's quickly go over the core reasons why search is so important.

	Whenever a person searches for anything, they tell the search engine two things. The first thing is their “intent” (what they want), and the second thing is that they want it at that exact moment. Consumers don't just need certain items. They need things at a specific time that works for them. This is a tiny window of time, and if you rank in search, you are able to get in front of those consumers at the precise time when they need what you are selling, and are seeking it out. This makes
the consumers who discover your app from search, far more likely to download your app and become engaged users of your app, than people who randomly discover your app via social media or other means.

	Additionally, if you rank for certain search phrases that bring traffic, you will continue to get downloads from people searching for those phrases as long as you continue to rank. This can be months or years. As long as you keep ranking for various search terms, you will get consistent daily downloads. Other marketing strategies do not yield these kinds of results. If you get publicity, you will have a spike in downloads, but that spike will come back to normal levels within a matter of
days, and you won't get similar downloads until the next time you get publicity. A similar situation is true for many of the social media marketing techniques where you generate a spike in downloads which loses strength within a matter of minutes, hours or days. In contrast, doing proper ASO can get you consistent downloads for years to come. Ranking in ASO is actually how I got most of the 1,000,000 downloads for my apps.

	This doesn't mean that you shouldn't focus on other marketing strategies. In fact, over time you should explore all the other possible marketing strategies because many other marketing strategies will go hand in hand with your app store search strategies, working to boost one another’s results and effectiveness.

	Here is what I do, and what I recommend to others. Start with a focus on ASO (App Store Optimization) by figuring out what keywords you want to, and are able to rank for. Write a proper title and description that target those keywords. That puts you in a good position to eventually rank for the keywords you need to rank for. Once you do that, you can move on to other marketing strategies. By setting up your app to get the most from ASO is low hanging fruit that is typically one of the
first things I do when I try to promote a mobile app. HOW TO DO APP STORE KEYWORD RESEARCH

	Many people are familiar with keyword research because they have been doing SEO for the web. ASO (App Store Optimization) keywords research is similar to SEO keyword research, but they are not the same. Let's go over a few of the major differences.

	The first major difference is that a website can have many pages and an app has only one listing. Each page on a website can attempt to rank for slightly different keywords. Since there is no limit to how many pages your website can have, there is also no limit to how many keywords your website can try to rank for. This is not the case for apps. Apps in app stores get one listing which is usually approximately a thousand words or so.

	That means that you can try to rank for a few main keywords and a few secondary keywords. That is it! What that means for you is that you have to choose the keywords to target very wisely. One additional difference to consider when choosing app store keywords is that people are typing with their thumbs instead of on a full keyboard. So the searches they would most often type would be on average much shorter than what they would type into the Google search box. This presents a few
difficulties because the people searching app stores for apps tend to use a narrower set of search queries that are also shorter in length. As an example, let's take a look at the keyword research for my business plan Android app, which ranks #1 on Android for the term "business plan" and the term "business." If this was a website, I could make individual pages that target many specific terms like "business plan for a restaurant" or "business plan for a coffee shop" or "business plan for a
home repair business" or any other similar term. But on the app stores, people tend to enter a narrower set of shorter search queries. That means that the main terms like "business plan" or "business planner" or "plan a business" get most of the search demand.

	What that means for you as the marketer of your app is that you will be competing for the same few keywords with every other app that is similar to yours. Long-term, this is one of the biggest challenges for your ASO. There are more apps in app stores every day, but not more keywords that they can rank for, and every day the ASO ecosystem is becoming more and more crowded and competitive.

	Imagine if you have a photo app. Will you be able to compete with and beat Instagram? What if you have a puzzle game app, will you be able to compete with thousands of other very similar puzzle apps? Some niches in the app stores are brutally competitive, and it is extremely difficult, if not impossible, to compete with them if your marketing budget isn't in the thousands of dollars per month because for some search terms you literally have to compete in search against billion dollar
companies.

	Understanding the competitiveness of your business niche, and your app's ability to compete within particular business niche keywords should be part of your business planning even before you sit down to write the very first line of code for your app. If you don't consider these things before you start, you may face a rude awakening months later when you face these facts as you try to get your app to rank in the app stores and find it very difficult to get downloads on a consistent basis.

	Just like some niches may be extremely competitive, other niches are wide open, and you can easily achieve high rankings for your app in those niches. The problem there may be a lack of search demand. Recall an earlier point about the narrowness of the kinds of searches that are done on mobile app stores. While some search terms get almost all the demand, many other searches see very little demand so ranking highly for the searches that get too little demand is equally ineffective as
trying to rank for search terms that are too competitive.

	You can use two tools to attempt to gauge search demand in mobile app stores. Of course, this data isn't made available by the Apple App Store or GooglePlay, but you can get an approximate idea using the Google Keyword Tool and an app store research tool named SensorTower.

	Here is the link to the Google Keyword Tool: https://adwords.google.com/ko/KeywordPlanner Here is the link to SensorTower: https://sensortower.com

	You can also easily find both by Googling for them. The Google Keyword Tool tells you about Google searches, and gives exact volumes of demand and keyword ideas. SensorTower gives you approximate information of searches and volume of demand in mobile app stores. They simply don’t have exact data, but they have an algorithm to approximate keyword demand in app stores. With the ability to approximate demand volume and the level of competition, as a part of your business strategy and your
marketing strategy, try to find a sweet spot in the keywords that you choose to target where you will be able to compete in app store search for searches that have reasonable demand.

	As your app grows stronger in app store search, your app will eventually be able to compete for more competitive searches. So you need a search strategy for the beginning, and a search strategy for once your app matures, gains strength in search, and will be able to compete for increasingly difficult search keywords to rank for.

	Of course, don’t forget to consider what your users would realistically search for. Think what they need, explore or wonder about that might lead them to enter some specific searches. At the end of the day, the keywords you choose must be ones that your potential users would actually search.

	Without downloads coming from app store search, growing your app will be extremely difficult. So give this quite a strong focus. I’ll explain more advanced strategies later in this book and walk you through an example. So if you are new to ASO, don’t worry if you don’t feel too confident with it just yet. I’ll do my best to help you with it.

	And keep in mind, at the end of the book, as one of my free gifts to readers of this book, I provide some free gifts, one of which is to give you feedback on your app. If you are struggling with ASO and keyword research, I can help you with it and give you feedback on the keywords you choose. SOCIAL AND ENGAGEMENT SIGNALS THAT INFLUENCE SEARCH RESULTS

	Once you choose the keywords you want to rank for, add a great title and description to your mobile app listing in the mobile app stores, you are done with ASO, right? Wrong! This is just the beginning. What you must do now is focus on social and engagement signals to make your apps stronger in search. Let's get into some detail about what these signals are. Engagement signals measure the level of engagement that users have with your app. How many times are they opening your app? Are they
deleting the app from their devices? Or are they keeping the app? How long are the session lengths? How many sessions does an average user have? All these metrics show how much users engaged with your app. If users engage with your app, that is a signal to the app stores that people like your app, and that it is good. If that is the case, this should help your app rank above your competitors in app store search for the keywords that you originally chose. On the other hand, if your engagement
signals are worse than those of your competitors, you still have to improve your app to make sure that your app is competitive with them on many of those metrics.

	Social signals are very similar to engagement signals. Social signals are things like the reviews that your apps gets. The frequency with which your app gets reviews, and quality of the reviews. Note: the app stores do not officially state that they actively monitor the social and engagement signals of your app. They also do not openly say which of the signals have more or less weight when it comes to influencing search rankings. Almost none of the major search engines (Google, YouTube,
Amazon, Yelp, App Stores, etc) make such information public. But they all work on these principles.

	As the marketer of your app, it is your job to acknowledge that these signals will be important for your app ranking, and experiment with raising these signals, and monitoring search results for your app to see what starts working for you. It is a relatively time consuming process so unless you have a large marketing budget, do not expect great results immediately. Be patient, and continue to experiment.

	Another thing to consider is just how much of your app ranking and ultimately downloads has nothing to do with direct promotion. Your app engagement will come from planning to have the right features in your app, executing those features well, and getting users to actively and consistently use them. If that happens, the app stores will interpret that as a very high quality signal about your apps, and rank your app higher in app store search.

	Later in this book we will get back to ASO and I will walk you through a practical example of how I achieved success with my own apps. That will help you have concrete takeaways, and reinforce what we went over in this section.

	Publicity And Press Coverage For Your App Everyone wants publicity, but less than 0.1% of new apps are covered by major tech or large news publications. Even the apps that do get coverage, either do that through hiring a PR agency (thousands of dollars a month), have great connections (not everyone does so this is can be an uneven playing field), or just have incredibly amazing apps. To get coverage for an app, being very good is not enough. The app and its story have to be amazing
because there are already tens of thousands of good apps out there. The bar of quality to get publicity for an app is quite high.

	Nevertheless, there are a number of things you can try to do to generate publicity for your app that can still be effective. Here are 11 strategies to get publicity for your app: GET FREE PRESS WITH HARO

	HARO stands for Help A Reporter Out. It is a service where reporters post inquiries about articles they are writing. If you can become a source (industry term for expert who provides an opinion) or answer any questions that helps them with their research, the journalists will credit you as the source in the story and link back to your site. That will help you get immediate publicity for your business as well as get you links from great websites. And that should help your website’s Google
SEO (search engine optimization) efforts as well, which can help you generate traffic to your website. You can funnel that traffic to then download your app. CREATE A PRESS RELEASE AND SEND TO HUNDREDS OF PUBLICATIONS USING PRWEB or PRLOG

	PRWeb.com is the world’s #1 news release service. PRLog.com is another very reputable press release service. They provide lots of free guides and tutorials for how to write press releases and get press coverage. Even their paid products are very affordable. They are certainly much cheaper than hiring a PR firm. They offer templates for you to create a press release and then send it out for you to thousands of publications. USE YOUR CONNECTIONS

	A great way to get publicity for your business is to use your connections in your industry. People you know may be connected to journalists, bloggers, or other professionals working at various publications. Your contacts can put you in touch with those journalists.

	That can help you get a story about your business published. Unfortunately, few people have those kinds of connections. If you do not have those kinds of connections, it would be a good idea to begin building them as early as possible. Just make sure to ask your friends. You never know who may know someone that can help. It never hurts to just ask. You might just be surprised by the results. BECOME FRIENDS WITH JOURNALISTS AND BLOGGERS

	Since you know that you will eventually need to get press coverage and publicity, research the journalists, podcasters and bloggers who cover your industry. Try to create relationships with those journalists online since they are probably not all located in your city. And try to do that before you actually need the press so you can build a little bit of a business relationship with them before you have to ask for a favor. Just about all journalists and serious bloggers use Twitter so
follow them on Twitter and interact with them. Leave intelligent responses on their articles. And when the day comes when you will need press, they will know a little bit about you, and will be more likely to consider writing an article about your business. HIRING A PR AGENCY

	Big and mid-size businesses typically hire a PR agency or an in-house PR professional. That works great for getting press, but a PR agency typically charges $10,000 per month on retainer. That means you would have to hire them for longer than a single month. So this is not an option for most small businesses. But once your business matures to the point where hiring a PR agency becomes affordable, it is a great option. A good PR agency can get your business publicity in top publications
and sometimes even television. GET PRESS FROM BLOGS AND SMALLER SITES

	Try to reach out to bloggers, YouTubers and podcasters in your niche. If you can, offer them something for free so that they write a review about your app. Many bloggers are much more approachable than large publications. So if you have a hard time getting press coverage from the really large sites, try to get publicity from bloggers in your business niche, or bloggers that blog about business your local area. Each time a blogger covers your business they not only give you publicity and
some direct downloads, but they also link to your website which helps your SEO.

	You can sometimes pay people to give you coverage. It is usually very affordable if you target relatively small publications. If your app makes money, you may be able to generate what you paid for the publicity in extra app revenue. GET ON PODCASTS AND RADIO SHOWS

	Appearing on podcasts and radio shows is another great way to get press coverage. Just like HARO is for journalists, a site called RadioGuestList.com is for podcasters and radio show hosts to look for guests. The RadioGuestList.com website sends a daily email listing podcasts and radio shows who are looking for particular types of guests. If your business background matches what the podcasters are looking for, you can email them and try to book an appearance. Many radio shows and podcasts
also have websites on which they typically post show notes. If you get yourself an appearance on a podcast, that show will also likely post an article about the episode with a link to your website. That can also help your SEO.

	This particular strategy has been so effective for me personally that I made a full course about it online. Remember, as one of my free gifts to you I can give you access to one of my online courses so you can potentially get this course for free. Here is the course so you can browse the full list of lectures:

	https://www.udemy.com/how-i-got-50-podcast-appearances-using-radioguestlist/ PRESS COVERAGE BY GUEST BLOGGING In case bloggers do not want to cover your product or business, you have another way to get publicity from their blogs. You can ask them if they would accept a guest post. You can try to write a guest article that would appear on their blog. In a guest article, you can link to your site. That may help your SEO, and potentially get you app downloads from people that come to your
website from those blogs.

	Few suggestions on guest blogging: make sure that the publication in which you are trying to place a guest article is in the same business niche as your app or business. The content must be relevant to their readers and your audience. Additionally, don’t over-do it with guest-blogging. A few times a month on different publications should be max. And always try to guest-blog in high quality blogs. Don’t waste time placing articles in tiny blogs or low quality websites because they will not
get you traffic, and the links from them will not be valuable for SEO. STAND OUT AND BE EXTRAORDINARY

	One thing to always keep in mind and think about is how your app, business and overall message can be or seem unique, interesting and unusual. When your business stands out, you are more likely to naturally get noticed and get press coverage. PUBLICITY BY JOINING PRESS CLUBS

	Every major city has a press club. If you are a business owner, you can go to the press club in your city and meet various journalists there. You can tell them that you are a source. A source is the term journalists use when they describe an expert or someone who contributes to their stories. If the journalists in your local press club use you as a source, they will credit you in the articles they write by mentioning your name and your business. That will not only give you publicity, but
will also help your SEO efforts because they will also link to your website or blog in their story. PUBLICITY STUNTS TO GET FREE PUBLICITY

	Another strategy you can use to get free publicity is to use publicity stunts. You can do something extraordinary and unusual that grabs attention. This is very similar to Seth Godin’s concept of the purple cow where you should do something unique and extraordinary to stand out and get attention.


	Social Sharing From Social Networks Most people understand that they need to be marketing via social networks, but do not quite manage to do that effectively. There are two general keys to effective social media marketing: Leveraging social media influencers in your niche. Expanding how broadly you think of social media marketing because social media marketing isn’t just posting to Twitter and Facebook. It is something that is far broader. To think about social media marketing more
broadly, consider that blogging and guest blogging is also part of social media. Additionally, think about sites like Quora, Reddit, HackerNews and other sites in your niche where content is shared.

	If you are in your business for the long-term, when you think about social media, think about how you can position your business and yourself as the thought leaders and an authority in that space. That can happen by either getting publicity or by establishing your own following on large social media sites. You can start your own podcast or a YouTube channel. In fact, I started my own YouTube channel to promote my apps. The beauty of creating your own large following on social media is
that if you manage to grow your social presence to be big enough, it will drive traffic and downloads to your apps daily. It will be almost like getting publicity for your apps every day!


	Social Sharing And User Invites Generated From Inside Your App As your users use your app, there will be some things that they can do with friends or people they know. That can be playing a game together, sharing content, or as the case in my business plan apps, users can collaborate with business partners and write their business plan, marketing plan or a fundraising plan together.

	Whatever features you create in your app, think about whether people would want to use those features with people they know. Enable and encourage your users to invite their friends to use the app, and use the app with their friends. This will get you some lift in downloads from your users bringing you new users.

	Always try to think about features that become better if used with friends. If you can get your current users to invite their friends into your app, that can give you a very nice boost in downloads. Think about a game like Words With Friends. One person who loves playing that game can invite hundreds of their friends over time. Then those friends can invite their friends. Over time a single download can generate hundreds or thousands of other downloads through people inviting their
friends from within the app. This is the ideal scenario for mobile apps. Your job is to think about how to position your app to make that kind of user behavior natural. What feature can you build that will make it natural for your app users to invite their friends to download your app?


	Website Promotion Your website should also be generating downloads for your app. You can drive people to your website via Google SEO, social media, answering questions on Quora.com, posting content on Reddit, participating in other sites and communities within your niche, or via many other strategies that get you web traffic to your website.

	Many app developers treat their website as a big landing page that has a big download button. But there is so much more you can do with your website. If you start creating content which also promotes your app, you can promote that content with Google SEO and all over the web. This can generate downloads with each piece of content you produce.

	You should optimize each page of your website for app downloads by adding big buttons that are calls to actions for people to download your app. There are two options for where your blog can exist. You can maintain a blog on your site, or you can have an entirely different site for your blog like I do with GlowingStart.com and Problemio.com. The advantage of having a different site is that you can try different promotional strategies on the two different sites, and compare results. Plus,
the topic of your blog will only loosely need to match the topic of your app if they are promoted via different sites, which will give you more creative freedom. The bad thing about having two websites is that you have to do everything twice and your branding gets diluted. The SEO has to be done for two sites. Plus you have to maintain two sites which ultimately doubles your work. So be weary of that.




	Cross Promote And Partner With Other Apps And Websites This is one of my least favorite approaches, but it can work. Simply find partners that are willing to cross- promote with you. You can drive people to them, and they can drive people to your app. These can be mobile apps, websites, podcasts or anything else. The key is that you should get as much exposure as you are giving to your partners. Remember, whenever you are sending one of your users out of your app, and toward your
partner’s app, you are killing engagement of your app, which is damaging to your app store optimization (ASO). For that reason, this is one of my less favorite approaches. So think twice about whether you want to do this.

	A better approach is for you to make multiple apps which you can then funnel your users to. For example, I built my apps as a 4-app course of 4 related apps. As many as 15% of people who download one of my apps go on to get more than one pd app. This way you immediately maximize your downloads without improving any of your outside marketing.

	Having multiple apps also allows you to target more different keywords in the app stores.


	Pay For Advertising You can certainly get downloads by paying for ads on mobile apps and websites. This can be very viable, but only once you have established and proven your revenue model and overall business model. Keep in mind that your business model is not your revenue model. A revenue model is just a part of your overall business model. Your business model is all the moving parts of your business (marketing, monetization, various costs, etc.) and how they play together.

	If you are able to generate enough revenue per customer to cover the costs of buying new customers via ads, then paying for advertising is very viable. But for most apps that are starting out, this isn’t the best option. This is only a great option once you know how much money you earn from an average download. That gives you a sense for how much you can spend on advertising to get new downloads.


	Email Marketing And Growing Your Email List As part of maintaining a blog or via features inside your app, you can collect the email addresses of your users. That will enable you to get instant exposure for whenever anything noteworthy happens and you need to make an announcement about it. For example, if you have an app update, a new blog post, a new YouTube video, release a new app, or anything else, you can send an update to your email list and drive them to your new offering. In
addition, you can also make money from your email list by notifying them of things you are selling, or other kinds of offers.


	Speak At Events Speaking at events can be beneficial to your business in a number of ways. Of course, the obvious benefit is that the audience may download your app. But that is only a minor benefit compared to the full potential of speaking engagements.

	If there are reporters or bloggers in the audience, they may include your app in their story. That will get you links for SEO and possibly give you a social media boost. Additionally, the conversation of the evening will be focused on you and your app, which can result in plenty of feedback about your product, further introductions and beginnings of interesting business relationships.


	Create A YouTube Channel Having a YouTube channel may not immediately make sense, but it actually makes amazing sense for a number of reasons, especially if you are planning to stick with your app as your main business for a long time. First, YouTube is the second largest search engine in the world. Many potential new users can discover your app on YouTube, and you can drive many of those potential users from YouTube to your app. The next best thing about YouTube is that its videos can be
re-purposed in many ways. If you want, you can place your YouTube channel inside your app. Having videos people can watch inside your app will help you increase time spent on the app which is an app store ranking factor. You can also embed the same videos on your website, which will increase the time people spend on your website, and possibly the ranking of some of your pages that have your YouTube videos. Additionally, your YouTube videos may show up in actual Google search results. And if
all that wasn’t enough, YouTube videos are more likely to be shared because people like videos and it is often easier to consume video content rather than reading text. Plus, if all else fails, you can make money with YouTube videos by placing AdSense ads on them.

	YouTube is possibly the most versatile social media platform. And your videos can be used for many purposes.

	One advanced YouTube tactic you can try if your app is a game is to put videos of how to play your game right on YouTube. That can funnel some of the app users to your YouTube channel which will help you grow your YouTube channel. And once you grow your YouTube channel, you will be better able to drive new potential app users from YouTube to your app.


	Keep Your App Freemium Have you noticed that most apps in the app stores are free? That isn’t because developers don’t want to make money. It is because the app stores make it much easier to promote free apps. And by virtue of that, paid apps never end up ranking well in app store search, and most consumers never discover most paid apps.

	So the common approach is to make your app free to download. Making the app free to download helps to make your app more competitive in search and makes it easier to promote your app. Once your app is competitive in app store search and is getting downloads, hopefully you will be able to figure out how to make money from your users. Later in this book I’ll cover the effective ways to generate revenue from your users as they are using your app.


	Google Search (SEO) For Your App Store URL While you cannot track how many people click or see your app’s URL in Google search (not your website URL, but the web URL of your actual app which is the web iTunes or GooglePlay listing of your app), it does show up in various searches and you can do SEO for that URL in order to get it ranking well. In fact, your app’s iTunes or GooglePlay URL will often outrank your website because it is on a very authoritative domain which is iTunes or
GooglePlay. So try to see what keywords your app URL ranks for, and try to point some links to it in order to get it to rank well in Google search. The simplest thing to do is to write a number of blog posts for your blog, and in each of those blog posts to link to the app URL.

	If you are slightly confused by what I mean by web URL of your app, here is the example of my app’s web URL: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.problemio&hl=en

	Establish A Presence On Any Large Platform Just like establishing a YouTube channel may be a great way for you to generate downloads for your app, any other large platform may be equally as good as long as you are able to establish a large presence on it. Think about what platform may have the most natural audience for the kind of app you have. It might be some big community in your niche or a big industry website or a large following or Pinterest or Facebook or Twitter, or anything
similar.


	Become A Great Marketer Whether you plan to work on the current app for years, or build other products, whenever you build something in the future, you will need to promote it like an absolute pro in order to maximize the sales of whatever you are promoting. The better you become at marketing and sales, the more products you will sell. For that reason, invest some time and effort into becoming a great marketer. It will help you for the duration for your entire career, far beyond the
current app project.


	If Your App Is Android, Release It On Multiple App Stores There are many Android app stores that are not GooglePlay. There is one for China, a number of other countries, and many smaller app stores ran by different technology companies. The Amazon Kindle also has an app store where you can add your Android apps. The NOOK platform also has its own app store and so does Samsung and other tech companies.

	One of the biggest factors in deciding whether to post your app in other app stores is how your app makes money. If your app makes money with ads, you can display those ads to people all over the world, and it makes sense to post your app in app stores of different countries. On the other hand, if your app makes money by selling in-app purchases, you will have to implement the in-app billing differently for every app store on which you plan to post your app. If you post a slightly
different version of your app on many different app stores, it will cause you to have a management nightmare because you will have to make a single app update many times, one for each app store version. This can slow down your development process, and hinder product improvement over time since you will have to allocate resources to maintenance more than development.


	Participate On Forums Posting on forums and telling people about your app can be pretty powerful. Just don’t confuse participation on forums with blatant forum spam. What you don’t want to do it join many forums, and put links to your app on all of them. People don’t like that, and there is a large chance that your posts will be deleted if you are perceived as a spammer.

	Instead of aggressively posting links to your app on forums, start by becoming a valuable contributor on forums where your potential users hang out. Gain some trust on forums first, and once you are a regular member there, you can sometimes point people to your app.


	How To Ensure That You Get Good App Reviews Mobile apps live and die by user reviews. If an app has good reviews, new potential users see that, and download the app too. If the app has bad reviews, new potential app users see that, and because the reviews are bad, avoid the app. Thus, having bad reviews decreases the number of downloads your app will have. And having fewer downloads will make you weaker in the app stores in terms of ranking because your competitors will have higher
accelerations of downloads, and will beat you on this metric. This will help them jump over you in the app store rankings over time.

	Now that you understand just how necessary it is to have amazing reviews of your apps, let's discuss how you can ensure that your app has great reviews. Apps that are successful at getting good reviews typically have one thing in common. They ask users to leave reviews. There is a little bit of an art to asking users for reviews at just the right time and place in your app to get many users to give you nice reviews.

	You must ask users to review your app when they are very happy with your app. If you ask users to review your app at random times, you will get good and bad reviews. But you only want the app to have good reviews. That means that as the app developer, you must know enough about your user experience to know exactly when your users are happiest with your app. For most apps, this is when your users have been using your app for a while. They can't possibly hate your app if they are regular
users of the app, right? So think of areas of your apps where either very engaged users end up, or the features your super users use, and ask for reviews there.

	Another instance when it might be a good idea to ask users for a review of your app is when they have an “aha” moment, or get what they need out of your app. For example, in my business plan app, I ask users for a review when they finish reading the tutorial for how to write a business plan. The assumption is that if they get to the end of the content, they must have felt like they were getting something out of it. Otherwise they would have quit reading in the middle of the content. This
assumption proved correct, and over time, I have gotten hundreds of 5-star reviews from that exact spot of my app at the end of that tutorial.

	Another thing you can do is to get your friends, business partners, and family members to use your app and give it a 5-star rating if they like the app. Additionally, many app developers buy 5-star reviews from app marketing agencies. I don't recommend doing this, but many app developers do use this tactic, and it works very well. Of course, you should be aware of the risk. If the app stores begin penalizing people for having many fake reviews, who knows how harsh the penalties may end up
being. So this is obviously very risky.

	How To Avoid Bad Reviews In The App Stores Every app developer or app entrepreneur wants to avoid bad reviews of their apps in the app stores. A user may give your app a bad review, leave, and forget about your app. But this bad review will damage your app's reputation for the lifetime of your app, doing its part to discourage new people from downloading your app. So any bad review you can avoid will translate directly to you getting more downloads, and generating more revenue from the
maximum potential downloads.

	Of course, it isn't possible to avoid 100% of the bad reviews that may come your way, but you can avoid a very large portion of the potential 1-star and 2-star reviews that you may potentially get by following a few simple strategies.

	The first and most obvious strategy is simply to make sure that you have a good app. I realize that this goes without saying, but mobile app users tend to be especially finicky. They expect even free apps to function perfectly. If your app isn't useful, or if it crashes too frequently for their liking, they may give your app a bad review. Even if your app is free, put a lot of focus on ensuring that your app satisfies your customers above and beyond their expectations.

	When I coach new app entrepreneurs, I tell them to make sure that their app is as good as it can possibly be, without crashes and with good usability. But it is easier said than done. Many apps that are made by new app entrepreneurs whom I coach aren't as good as users need. First-time entrepreneurs especially need to have this point emphasized many times. Product quality is one of your most important marketing tools for almost any business. If the product is good, people will recommend
your app to friends, and leave good reviews. But if they don't like the app, they won't recommend it to friends, and leave bad reviews, which will discourage future potential users from downloading your app.

	Once you are certain that your users love your app, and that all the major bugs are fixed, you can focus on other tactics that will help you decrease your bad reviews. The first such tactic, since you will never fix all the bugs in your app, is to add your tech support email address at the bottom of the description of your app. I like to leave it as the last line in my app's description in the GooglePlay and Apple App Store. Some of the people who experience technical problems with your
app will see your tech support email address as they try to leave a bad review in the app store, and email you for help instead of simply giving your app a bad review and disappearing.

	Another strategy to make sure that you minimize your bad reviews is to ask for reviews in parts of your app that are less prone to bugs and where you are certain that your users will be happy with your app. In the case of my business plan app, for example, I added content articles which are tutorials for how to write a business plan. These articles are helpful, and are not prone to bugs since it is just content and not a tool where bugs can creep in. Conversely, I deliberately did not
place any calls to action for users to add reviews of the app in the actual business planning part of the app because if the users disliked the usability, or the server was down, they may leave bad reviews. I just didn't risk asking for reviews there. Another strategy to minimize bad reviews may be one that you find surprising. Whenever you or your business interact with anyone online, make sure you come across as positive and non-controversial. You never know who you might anger online if
you argue topics like religion, politics or anything else that can be controversial. If you get into an argument with the wrong person, and they decide to slander your work, your app will pay the price.

	Another strategy to minimize bad reviews is to not put too many ads on your app, and not to up-sell anything in a too-pushy way as much as possible. If your users take offense at your ads or overly ambitious promotion of anything else, they may leave a bad review in the app store. This point goes hand in hand with making sure that your app or any in-app purchased are not overpriced. If users think something is too expensive and doesn’t offer enough value, they may leave a bad review.

	How To Boost Social And Engagement Signals Of Your App The app stores collect various data about how users use your app, and gauge the app's quality and relevance to people's needs from that data. That data is called engagement signals and social signals. They track how engaged users are with your app in various ways.

	Every app developer wants to increase the time users spend with their app. It is a great proof that the app is a good product, it helps with app store rankings, and the more time people spend with an app, the more likely those users will warm up to the idea that it is OK to spend money buying something on the app. I'll share some of the things I did to help my apps have better social and engagement signals than my competitors.

	The first thing I did that helped my apps get great reviews in the app stores and increase the social engagement on the apps is I enabled chat. I added a feature to the apps where users who were planning a business (since it was a business planning app) could ask me questions, and I would answer their questions right on the app. Sometimes we would get into long conversations and many questions would follow people's initial questions. Each comment, of course, meant that they would have to
open the app (engagement signal) and write a comment (extra time spent on the app which is another engagement signal). But the best part of this was that my users truly got amazing personalized help planning their business. No software can give personalized advice as well as a person can. Because of that, people were thrilled about the kind of help they were getting from the app, and were leaving great reviews about the app (social signal). This single feature helped the app boost many of its
social and engagement signals. Whatever your app might be, if you can add some sort of an interaction either between you and your users, or allow your app users interact with other users (this is even better because you don't have to be involved), it can help you boost your engagement signals quite a bit.

	Another thing you must include in your app are sensitively conceptualized push notifications. Push notifications can feel very intrusive to users so you must be very careful not to overwhelm or spook your users with push notifications because if you do it will backfire, and they will delete your app.

	Your push notifications must always be welcomed by your users. To accomplish that, you should only alert them of things they opted into, and that they truly look forward to. In the case of my apps, I only use push notifications to alert people when they are getting help with their business if they requested help or asked a question. Every time you get a user back on your app, it is a little win for your app store rankings. But be careful not to overdo it with the push notifications. If
they annoy your users, those users will delete your app or add bad reviews, and you will lose any ASO benefits or any chance to make money from that user. So be very careful with how you use push notifications. Ideally you would make users talk to one another instead of with you because your time will need to be spent on other tasks related to growing your business. Think of features you can add to your app where users engage one another. It can be something like a turn-based game where every
time it is a user's turn, they get a notification. The game itself can engage users by giving them extra free points every day with the user having to open the app to accept the extra points. That gets the user to open the app daily, and gets them to re-engage with the app. Messaging features have this advantage "built in" because every time a user gets a message, they get an alert that they need to open the app to see the message.

	You can notify users in two ways. You can use email or push notifications. Push notifications are more effective to get users into your app, but you can't use push notifications in every case. When you can't use push notifications, fall back on plan B, which is notifying them via email. On Android, users must opt into push notifications when they download the app, and on iOS, users have a choice of whether they want to receive push notifications from your app, after they download the app.

	There is an important nuance here when it comes to the Android platform. To enable push notifications, your app must require extra permissions. Some of these permissions may feel intrusive to your users, and they may decide not to download the app due to the extra requirements. So when you add push notifications, make sure that they bring a significant enough amount of benefit because to enable them, the extra app requirements will cause a slight decrease in your overall download numbers.
Just keep that nuance in mind when you are making the business decision of whether to enable push notifications on Android. Although push notifications are more effective at getting people back into your app, there may be some cases when it makes sense to decide to notify users via email instead.

	Inviting friends is another strategy that can help you boost your engagement signals. Adding such social features to apps is great because it helps you get more downloads. A great side effect of inviting friends and getting more downloads is that your download acceleration goes up. App stores track that, and you begin to out-compete your competition on this metric. Social sharing isn't just great because it gets you more app users. It has further benefits because it helps you rank better
at the same time.

	Another interesting trick I like to use in my apps is adding video that can be watched right inside my apps. If an average session length for an average app is about a minute, and you get people to watch a video that is five minutes, you just increased your app session length average, and thus beat your competition on that metric. In my own apps I took this to an extreme. Since my apps cover business ideas, business planning, marketing and fundraising, I started a YouTube channel covering
these topics in amazing depth. Over time I have been released over 800 videos on my YouTube channel, all of which can be viewed on my apps.

	Since I release videos regularly, it meant that the app regularly had fresh videos to watch, and that gave people a reason to open the app daily to watch the videos. This helped me raise a few engagement metrics. My users were re-engaging with the app daily. They were deleting the app much less frequently, and when they did watch the videos, those sessions were at least a few minutes long. Additionally, many of my app users ended up subscribing to my channel on YouTube, and helped my
videos become more prominent on YouTube. That helped me grow an independent large presence on YouTube that I then use to funnel people from YouTube back to download my apps, or sell any other product I have.

	A fascinating thing about YouTube is that the audio from the videos can be taken and made into a podcast. This way you can increase engagement on your app by embedding your podcasts just like you embed your videos, and also grow a presence on iTunes that you can then funnel back to your apps, just like you did with YouTube. If you are curious, check out my YouTube channel here: http://www.youtube.com/user/Okudjavavich NOTE: One important nuance to keep in mind is that you must embed the
podcasts or YouTube videos right into your apps. Don't just link to that content and allow users to go off your app to YouTube, but make sure that people are watching while they are still on your app. If people leave your app to consume that content, this will not help your engagement metrics. In fact, it will hurt your engagement metrics because people will be leaving your app. So YouTube or podcasts have to be embedded as a part of your app. To see how I did this with my apps, you can check
out any of my apps on http://www.problemio.com and use my example to guide how you embed this feature into your app.

	Another tactic you can use to improve your engagement metrics is adding written educational materials or tutorials. This doesn't apply to games, but if your app is a utility or a business app, or an app that serves some other practical purpose, most likely your app users can benefit from a little bit of an education about the subject matter. Having your app users consume written content will also serve to increase the time your users spend on the app just like with watching videos or
listening to audio content. Written content is also great because you can code that into your app, and your users won't need an Internet connection to consume that content like they would if they wanted to watch a YouTube video or listen to a podcast episode. Plus, if you have written, audio, and video content on your app, you can be sure that you are satisfying many different kinds of people. Some people prefer to read while others prefer to listen while other prefer to watch. Now, no one
can complain that you don't have something for them.

	I've mentioned it earlier, but if you can make it so that there is constant new content being generated on your app either by you or by your users, your users will log in and explore that new content on a regular basis. Every time they open the app, you get a tiny boost in ASO to help your app rank better in the app stores. Let's recap the strategies for how to continuously get new content. You can engage with users personally (it can be powerful, but I rarely see this on apps outside of
my own apps), users can engage with each other, and you can create original content that your users can consume. The more this can be done without your direct involvement the better, because it will save you time to work on other things related to your app.

	Lastly, I want to go over the advantages of having a marketing budget. If you are able to pay to enhance some of your marketing efforts, your life as an app marketer can be much easier. For example, remember how increasing the acceleration of downloads can help you boost your engagement signals and give you an advantage over your competition in app store rankings? What if you were able to afford either hiring a PR agency or paying $1 per download (that is close to the going rate) for
thousands of downloads? If you are an individual developer or a part of a small team, you probably can't afford that yet. But consider that if you decide to compete in any competitive niche, some of your competitors will have deep pockets, and will be able to superficially boost their engagement signals by paying for downloads this way. For your part, you will only be able to pay to advertise at rates that are sustainable. That means paying less per download than the revenue your app
generates per download. And that usually is far less than richer companies can afford.

	This just mans that for some competitive app niches, you may have to raise money to have a chance. And raising money isn’t for everyone. Most people don’t succeed at raising money. So make sure you take all this into account when planning your app.

	3 Ways To Launch Your App Launching your app is one of the most exciting moments in your journey as an app entrepreneur. There are only a few other moments in your journey as an app entrepreneur when things will get more exciting. Those moments will occur when you figure out how to get the hyper growth you are after, when your revenue and profitability will reach and surpass your goals for your app, and if it happens, when you sell your app for a lot of money. It is fun to dream, isn't
it? For now, let's come back down to earth from the clouds for a little bit, and make sure that you get your app's launch right.

	There are 3 ways to launch your app. You can do a quiet launch (this is what I did), a launch with lots of publicity and attention, and an extra loud launch on stage at a conference. Let's cover all three in detail. SOFT LAUNCH FOR YOUR APP

	A quiet launch (sometimes called a soft launch) is a launch during which you simply make your app available in the app stores of your choice, and only tell your friends, family and some professional contacts about your app's availability. A small number of people will also find your app directly in the app store.

	The point of a quiet launch is to have only a small set of users who will be your initial beta user group. This is crucial because you will need to observe how they use your app, and use analytics to get an understanding of how your initial users are using your app, what they like about it, what they don’t like, and at which points of the app users quit using your app. Doing this will give you insight about where your app is strong and where it is potentially weak or buggy. The idea
behind doing a quiet launch is to find as many places where your app can be improved, quickly improve it, and quietly release an update of your app with appropriate fixes to do more testing and monitoring of your users to determine next areas of the app that need to be improved.

	Frankly, this iterative process of improving your app should never stop, and you should always devote resources to improve your app in the manner I just described. After all, product quality and customer satisfaction is one of your biggest assets when it comes to creating a great business.

	Nevertheless, at one point you will decide that the app has been improved enough to be promoted to a wider audience. This is when you can start thinking about doing a big launch with publicity. HOW TO DO A BIG APP LAUNCH WITH PUBLICITY

	Throughout the soft launch of your app you should be creating relationships with journalists who cover apps or your specific industry, bloggers who cover apps or your specific industry, podcasters who cover apps or your specific industry, mobile app review site editors, other app entrepreneurs, and YouTubers who focus on apps.

	If you are successful at getting them excited about your app, when you are ready to do a big launch of your app, you can reach out to them and tell them that on a given date you will launch your app. A few of those people will help you, and suddenly you have your launch date set, on which you can get a boost from extra publicity. If you are able to allocate a marketing budget for your app, it will go a long way to convincing people to help promote your app on their platform during your
launch, significantly boosting your launch efforts.

	Just launching your app and getting publicity isn't enough though. You need further strategy and goals. Since, as you already know, most apps rely on app store search for many of their downloads as their main long-term marketing strategy, you need to incorporate that into your launch strategy by positioning your app to get a search rankings boost from your big launch. To position your app to do well in search, you must have a good title and description that target relevant search terms by
which users will find your app in the future. And you can use the publicity and download burst from your launch to get your app to rank for those keywords because one of the metrics app stores use to generate search results is the acceleration of downloads for apps.

	Let me explain this a little bit further. Remember how app stores track metrics like app download accelerations, positive reviews, and time spent on the app? Well, this is your chance to boost your app download acceleration by orders of magnitude via the publicity during your big launch. You may be wondering how the publicity will help to increase the time people spend on your app. Publicity won't help that on its own. This is where your soft launch and your beta testing should play its
part. User engagement is one of the core aspects of your app that you must work to improve during your beta testing.

	Ideally, by the time you do a big launch of your app, user engagement should be in a good place. If your publicity efforts result in hundreds or thousands of extra downloads, it should (no guarantees) help you immediately achieve relatively good rankings in app store searches. Of course, if your app is in a very competitive niche, it won't be that simple. Nevertheless, this is the strategy to give your app a nice rise in app store search rankings from the beginning, by having a great
launch.

	The kind of a launch I just described should go a long way to getting many downloads and helping your app rank well in app store search. Nevertheless, it doesn't always work out perfectly. App entrepreneurs sometimes come to me after doing a launch like this, and ask me why their app isn't ranking well. Most of the time the problem is easy to spot. The most common issue is that there is a big disconnect between what the app developers or app entrepreneurs think is a point where their app
is good, and the opinion of their users. When I download the apps of those entrepreneurs to have a look for myself I can immediately spot places within the app where users would get confused, and stop using the app. Often, since their app is new, the app is so poor that is it barely even usable.

	Additionally, use confusion is one of the biggest reasons users quit using apps. It might seem harmless to us as app entrepreneurs, but when your app usability isn’t quite right, and users are confused, they subconsciously feel stupid and bad about themselves. That causes them not to go back to the product that made them feel this way. You might think that they should just spend a little bit more time trying to figure out how to use the app, but many of your users simply won't do that.
They will just quietly quit without telling you why. Some of those users will tell you about it by leaving a bad review about your app. You certainly don't want to find out about why they quit your app this way.

	During your soft beta launch and moving forward, you must be very careful to make sure that your app usability does not confuse people at any point of using your app. This is easier said than done. To be completely honest with you, I still have spots in my apps where users get confused. Despite me knowing where my users get confused, to fix or improve those areas isn't always easy. It often requires rewriting a large part of the usability without guarantee that the next version of the
software will be any more user friendly. Nevertheless, as much as possible, try to minimize confusion points within your app.

	When your app's usability is smooth and has minimal confusion, and you are able to accelerate downloads, you should be in good shape in terms of app store search rankings as long as your app is in a niche that is not ultra competitive.

	BIGGER APP LAUNCH: PRESENT YOUR APP AT A CONFERENCE

	There is one strategy to take your big "launch with a boom" and amplify that boom further. That strategy is to launch your app on stage at a conference. I realize that this isn't an option for most app entrepreneurs, but if your app is unique and intriguing enough, consider applying to launch at the Launch conference hosted by Jason Calacanis, the TechCrunch Disrupt conference, any of the other major technology and app conference, or a conference focusing on the particular business niche
of your app. Presenting on stage will not only expose your app to the immediate audience of the event, but it will also inform all the reporters in the audience about your app, amplifying the chances of getting press coverage in the publications for which they write.


	Translate Your App’s Title And Description To Other Languages

	By now you are aware of ASO and app store keywords. But did you realize that people might be using the same keywords but in different languages? For example, if the keyword you are targeting is “hello” then only the people who search the app stores for “hello” will find your app. But what about when people search using different languages? What if they search for “hola” which means hello in Spanish or “bon jour” which means hello in French or if they search for “hello” in any other
language.

	As soon as you translate your app’s title and description, your app will begin appearing in app store searches that are searched in other languages. People sometimes report over 100% immediate increase in downloads after translating their app titles and descriptions into other popular languages. And the best part is that you can get immediate free translations using GoogleTranslate.




























